  
1 - ensure django is in installed pip install django

2 - ensure you are in the right directory: cd PORTFOLIOWEBAPP

3 - python manage.py makemigrations

4 - python manage.py migrate     

5 - python manage.py runserver  

open port 8000

Before Hosting the website checklist: 

Prepare dockerfile

Django Project Preparation
    -Project Structure: Ensure your Django project is well-structured with appropriate apps, templates, and static files organized.
    -Static Files: Make sure your static files (CSS, JavaScript, images) are collected and properly configured using STATIC_URL and STATIC_ROOT.
    -Secret Key & Settings: Double-check that your SECRET_KEY, DEBUG, and other sensitive settings are not hardcoded in your settings.py. Use environment variables for these.
    -Database Configuration: Ensure you're using the correct database settings (SQLite for development, but consider PostgreSQL or MySQL for production).
    -Allowed Hosts: Update ALLOWED_HOSTS in settings.py to include your domain name or the IP address of the hosting server.
    -Media Files: If you're handling user-uploaded files, configure MEDIA_URL and MEDIA_ROOT.
    -URLs & Views: Check that all URLs are correctly mapped and each view renders properly.
    -Testing: Thoroughly test your website locally, including forms, pages, and dynamic content.

Security Enhancements: Use security best practices:
    Enable HTTPS.
    -Set SECURE_HSTS_SECONDS, SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT, and other security-related settings for production.
    Use X-Frame-Options, Content-Security-Policy, and X-Content-Type-Options headers.

Deployment Preparation:
    Prepare for Static Files: Run python manage.py collectstatic to gather all static files into the static root folder.
    Requirements File: Ensure you have a requirements.txt file generated with pip freeze > requirements.txt.
    Database Migrations: Run python manage.py makemigrations and python manage.py migrate to ensure the database schema is up-to-date.
    Superuser Account: Create a superuser account with python manage.py createsuperuser for admin access.

Server & Hosting
    Domain Name: Have a domain name ready, and ensure it's properly linked to your server.
    SSL Certificate: Get an SSL certificate (e.g., from Let's Encrypt) to secure your site.
    Deployment Tools: Decide whether you're using Gunicorn, uWSGI, or another WSGI server to serve your Django app.
    Web Server: Install and configure a web server like Nginx or Apache as a reverse proxy for your Django app.
    Environment Variables: Set up environment variables for sensitive settings such as SECRET_KEY, database credentials, etc.
    Virtual Environment: Ensure your Django project runs in a virtual environment on the server.
    Git Version Control: Use Git to manage your project’s version control, and set up deployment pipelines if necessary.

Final Testing
    Cross-Browser Testing: Test your portfolio on different browsers (Chrome, Safari, Firefox, etc.).
    Mobile-Friendly: Ensure the site is responsive and works well on mobile devices.
    404 and 500 Pages: Set up custom error pages for 404 (Not Found) and 500 (Server Error) issues.